README.md, before:

[![Mozilla Public License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MPL-blue.svg)](https://www.mozilla.org/MPL)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/leprechau/ipman)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/leprechau/ipman)

# ipman

## Summary

IPman is a simple tool to automatically update DNS records (A and AAAA) based on the external local IPv4 and/or IPv6
address of the local machine.  It uses ipify.com for the external address lookup and supports writing
records to GoDaddy's DNS API.  Both backend providers are modeled as interfaces to allow adding additional backends as
needed in the future.

## Installing

Users with a proper Go environment (1.8+ required) ...

```
go get -u github.com/leprechau/ipman
```

Developers that wish to take advantage of vendoring and other options ...

```
git clone https://github.com/leprechau/ipman.git
cd ipman
make
```

## Usage

### Summary

```
ahurt$ ipman --help
Usage: ipman [--version] [--help] <command> [<args>]

Available commands are:
    check     Return current external ip address of local machine.
    update    Update DNS registry with external ip address of local machine.
```

### Check Options

| Option | Description                                             |
|--------|---------------------------------------------------------|
| `4`    | Get external IPv4 address if available.                 |
| `6`    | Get external IPv6 address if available.                 |
| `ipbe` | IP lookup backend (`ipify` or `local`) default: `ipify` |


### Update Options

| Option   | Description                                                                                     |
|----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `4`      | Get external IPv4 address if available.                                                         |
| `6`      | Get external IPv6 address if available.                                                         |
| `key`    | The DNS API access key.  May also be set via the `IPMAN_DNS_KEY` environment variable.          |
| `secret` | The DNS API access secret.  May also be set by via the `IPMAN_DNS_SECRET` environment variable. |
| `domain` | The DNS domain name. This value defaults to the domain portion of the local hostname.           |
| `name`   | The DNS record name. This defaults to the domain root alias ("@").                              |
| `ttl`    | The DNS record ttl in seconds.  This defaults to 600 seconds (5 minutes).                       |
| `ipbe`   | IP lookup backend (`ipify` or `local`). This defaults to `ipify`.                               |
| `dnsbe`  | DNS update backend (only `godaddy` currently). This defaults to `godaddy`.                      |

### Example

```
ahurt$ ./ipman update -4 -6 -key=YourAccessKey -secret=YourSuperSecretKey
2018/01/18 10:12:35 [IPv4] local/remote 67.187.109.252/67.187.109.252
2018/01/18 10:12:37 [IPv6] local/remote 2601:484:c000:5203:ec4:7aff:feb0:4068/2601:484:c000:5203:ec4:7aff:feb0:4068
```

The `key` and `secret` flags are optional when using environment variables.  This will keep your keys from potentially
showing up in the system process list.  If Updates are required, the local address differs from the remote DNS record,
the performed update will be printed.

### Crontab (automatic updates)

To dynamically update your records in near real time you can crontab the utillity using something similar to the below
in your local users crontab.

```
## ipman secrets for godaddy api
IPMAN_DNS_KEY=YourAccessKey
IPMAN_DNS_SECRET=YourSuperSecretKey

## check and possibly update dns entries every 30 minutes
*/30 * * * * /path/to/ipman update -4 -6 >/dev/null 2>&1
```

Please see the crontab documentation of your local system for more information.

Commit message:

major updates
* Removed myENA/restclient in favor of go-resty/resty
* Added Cloudflare support
* Noted GoDaddy support state
* Misc code cleanup and simplification

README.md, after:

[![Mozilla Public License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MPL-blue.svg)](https://www.mozilla.org/MPL)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/leprechau/ipman)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/leprechau/ipman)

# ipman

## Summary

IPman is a simple tool to automatically update DNS records (A and AAAA) based on the external local IPv4 and/or IPv6
address of the local machine.  It uses ipify.com for the external address lookup and supports writing
records to Cloudflare and GoDaddy's DNS API.  Both backend providers are modeled as interfaces to allow adding
additional backends as needed in the future.

Note: It appears GoDaddy has blocked API access for most customers. The GoDaddy API in this tool should
still function, but I am no longer able to test it and have moved my domain hosting to Cloudflare.
* https://www.reddit.com/r/selfhosted/comments/1cnipp3/warning_godaddy_silently_cut_access_to_their_dns/
* https://www.reddit.com/r/godaddy/comments/1bl0f5r/am_i_the_only_one_who_cant_use_the_api/

## Installing

Users with a proper Go environment (1.20+ required) ...

```
go get -u github.com/leprechau/ipman
```

Developers that wish to take advantage of vendoring and other options ...

```
git clone https://github.com/leprechau/ipman.git
cd ipman
make
```

## Usage

### Summary

```
ahurt$ ipman --help
Usage: ipman [--version] [--help] <command> [<args>]

Available commands are:
    check     Return current external ip address of local machine.
    update    Update DNS registry with external ip address of local machine.
```

### Check Options

| Option | Description                                             |
|--------|---------------------------------------------------------|
| `4`    | Get external IPv4 address if available.                 |
| `6`    | Get external IPv6 address if available.                 |
| `ipbe` | IP lookup backend (`ipify` or `local`) default: `ipify` |


### Update Options

| Option   | Description                                                                                     |
|----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `4`      | Get external IPv4 address if available.                                                         |
| `6`      | Get external IPv6 address if available.                                                         |
| `key`    | The DNS API access key.  May also be set via the `IPMAN_DNS_KEY` environment variable.          |
| `secret` | The DNS API access secret.  May also be set by via the `IPMAN_DNS_SECRET` environment variable. |
| `zone`   | The DNS zone ID or domain name. This is a required parameter.                                   |
| `name`   | The DNS record name. This defaults to the dns zone apex ("@").                                  |
| `ttl`    | The DNS record ttl in seconds.  This defaults to 600 seconds (5 minutes).                       |
| `ipbe`   | IP lookup backend (`ipify` or `local`). This defaults to `ipify`.                               |
| `dnsbe`  | DNS update backend (`cloudflare` or `godaddy`). This defaults to `cloudflare`.                  |

### Example

```
ahurt$ ./ipman update -4 -6 -key=YourAccessKey -secret=YourSuperSecretKey
2018/01/18 10:12:35 [IPv4] local/remote 67.187.109.252/67.187.109.252
2018/01/18 10:12:37 [IPv6] local/remote 2601:484:c000:5203:ec4:7aff:feb0:4068/2601:484:c000:5203:ec4:7aff:feb0:4068
```

The `key` and `secret` flags are optional when using environment variables.  This will keep your keys from potentially
showing up in the system process list.  If Updates are required, the local address differs from the remote DNS record,
the performed update will be printed.

### Crontab (automatic updates)

To dynamically update your records in near real time you can crontab the utillity using something similar to the below
in your local users crontab.

```
## ipman secrets for godaddy api
IPMAN_DNS_KEY=YourAccessKey
IPMAN_DNS_SECRET=YourSuperSecretKey

## check and possibly update dns entries every 30 minutes
*/30 * * * * /path/to/ipman update -4 -6 >/dev/null 2>&1
```

Please see the crontab documentation of your local system for more information.
